depending on what type of business you
have meetups or industry
roundtables like the your best selling
mechanism is having a really happy
customer sell to a prospect that's your
number one thing so setting up
environments where you can do that I
think is super valuable we had the
advantage of having these really large
open- Source communities like spark
Summit where we' bring thousands of
users and customers together but even
early on we did things like product
Advisory board we're very customer
obsessed right so you're going to get a
lot of innovation and other ideas from
your customers you never want to do do
like a oneoff but if you hear something
from 20 different customers put in the
products right and those customers want
to feel special too they want to be part
of the rocket ship right so bring them
in make them part of your family saster
fans welcome to another incredible
episode of cro confidential I'm your
host Sam blonde we have a really special
episode for you this week we have Ron
gabris who's Cro at data bricks and
couple things to flag before we jump
into the meat of the episode if you've
been living under a rock data bricks is
one of the largest pre-ipo technology
businesses in the world Ron joined data
bricks as cro when there was less than a
million dollars of ARR fast forward to
today we have a revenue leader who has
scaled to like sites seen by very few
Revenue leaders at a company that is one
of the largest pre-ipo companies in the
world the makings for an incredible
episode thank you Ron for joining and
looking forward to the episode yeah
thanks for having me all right before we
jump in Ron has an incredible background
prior to joining data bricks he was with
axway software prior to data bricks
really impressive run and outcome there
and then interesting and applicable to
some of the content for today's episode
Ron has an NBA and a master's in
engineering from Stanford so a bit of
atypical background for a sales leader
certainly not my experience from an
education standpoint with most of the
sales folks that I have worked with
let's actually start there before we get
into the revenue let's start with you
joining data bricks so you join less
than a million dollars of ARR one thing
that is a topic that CEOs Founders bring
up with me regularly is this idea of we
have a more technical sale or we sell in
like some specific space and then
solving for somebody with that type of
domain experience and so you're somebody
who both with the experience at axway
and then also being an engineer just by
education are far more technical how do
you think about that playing into you
being selected for the role of cro and
do you have some like guidance that you
might provide to others around if it's a
more technical sale to a more technical
buyer solving for that in the sales
leader yeah know great questions first
off our company was founded by seven
phds from Berkeley right so some of the
smartest people I've ever met
and I think in general if you have a
really technical
product most of the buyers if they're
technical buyers they want they don't
really love talking with salespeople so
you have to add a lot of value on the
technical front you need to know your
stuff they don't even necessarily trust
all sales people I inherently I think if
you look at Silicon Valley even lots of
founder technical CEOs and I really
think like having a technical cro for a
technical company is really important I
could say the same for domain and
whatever you're selling but for sure in
in the technical space that I'm in I
haven't an engineering the technical
background and having known very
technical sales and Technical products
is not just a big part of kind of my
background but a big part of our sales
team right like I would say most of our
sales people are more technical than
most we're still going to focus on
business outcomes and how do you sell to
the SE suite and all those things but
knowing the technology and being able to
add value I think is is really important
for a technical company and Technical
sales team what I'm interpreting as a
takeaway is my my guidance on this to
Founders is something like I wouldn't
over index on domain experience because
often times you're making a tradeoff for
something
else and if you're selling into Health
Care as an example and you only look to
hire somebody who has sold the health
care in the past um your candidate
population is just extremely limited by
that nature there's only so many tech
companies that exist in the world and
how many of those are selling into
healthare I think maybe the one nuance
and I've heard this um now both from you
but also somewhat regular even from
Jason Lyin who is the head of
saster a technical sale to a a technical
buyer might be it its own unique
category where domain experience or
having an engineering background similar
to yours is something you actually want
to solve for does that sound right and
is that the right right interpretation
based off what listen what does a
salesperson do they teach your customers
how to get value out of your product
right so if you're not technically
techical enough to understand the
product and understand how it works it's
hard to teach your customers how to get
value from it so even if you're leader
again I'm a people leader I try to hire
the best people and motivate them and
Inspire them but you're still going to
have to hire the right types of domain
experts and the mix of those talents to
be able to add value to your customer I
do think having a more technical
background in inside of a technical sale
is an advantage for sure so and do you
last question on this and we'll move on
to the theme of the episode which is
scaling does your does the makeup of
your sales team today
skew people with more technical sales
experience or do you also hire sellers
with non-technical sales backgrounds we
tend to hire mostly technical
backgrounds but as our customers get
larger and larger you start to get
Global account managers they're going to
have much more business strategic count
managements similar to most structure of
uh technical sales team we have account
Executives and solution Architects and
sdrs and Specialists and every function
in the mix of those functions I would
say rsay tend to be very technical a lot
of them can code they can do poc's they
can do pilots they're not just doing
demos and we expect our salespeople to
understand the technology not just be
able to bring in the right resource Es
as you get bigger and bigger in our
customers say our $100 million plus
customers where a lot of it's around how
do you organize around SE level contacts
and organization navigate the
organizations I think you can be less
Technical and more kind of vertical
domain so we have a mix of both but I I
definitely think as we scaled an
advantage from the early days was having
a very or a more technical sales team
for sure
okay it makes sense so let's just segue
from there then to those early days so
you join the company has less than a
million dollars of ARR you have a
technical background so you're probably
spending a lot of time customer facing
speaking the language of your buyer
let's start with how did you acquire the
first set of customers for data
brecks yeah so think about early days we
open Source data brakes Founders created
spark right part of the reason I thought
data brakes could be a massive success
was everyone's using spark they're using
the open source
and step one was just go talk to a bunch
of the users find
out what would they pay for right what
are some of the challenges and what has
the most value and what's their
propensity to spend and things of that
nature I hired for my network I hired
some of the best to just go and do
Discovery and meet with customers and
understand where we could add value and
that kind of helped educate then our
product strategy and our monetization
strategy and our pricing strategy and
literally a lot of our early customers
were just open- Source free users that
we developed relationship with that
needed things in the product or needed
additional support or things of that
nature so you have a free version of the
product that you join and you can see
things like usage statistics
activity metrics those sorts of things
and then you can cherry pick anything on
The Branding side or outbound side that
was driving that free usage if you look
at spark as an open- source project it's
probably one of the if not the most
popular open source project in the world
it still has tens of millions of
downloads right I think building an open
source product and then getting the
community to use it and be behind it was
one of the secrets I think of data
breaks like the founder the founding
team that's literally what they focused
on for the most part right they
weren't as focused on how do I develop
my Revenue model and my pricing model
they wanted to make sure they got the
adoption
model and they nailed that with spark
and then as we have evolved we've done
lots of other open- source projects
right like Delta and mlflow
and it's we're an open source company
right that method
of how you develop open source get
people to both contribute to it and
adopt it and use it and then how do you
then offer a service that's a value to
customers that use that that's honestly
I think that's the open- source model of
the future and I think data bricks
pioneered that
so it makes a lot of
sense you have the unique
advantage of having an open- Source
product that when you come in as the
revenue leader you can take what are in
a way like already users of the product
and try and monetize them versus trying
to generate demand from scratch with
people in companies who probably don't
know who you are at still sub $1 million
of ARR does that all sound right yeah
exactly and I think if you look at the
future and you look at the projects that
are coming up most of
the computer science and engineering
schools they're open source so they're
following that model right get
contributors develop great products let
people use them let people contribute
them and then figure out how do you then
monetize and build a revenue model on
top of for sure were you all intentional
about whether they were open source
users or early paying customers of the
product in
leveraging those customers to generate
additional demand like how did you try
try and take advantage of the like
customer Affinity that existed for your
company and product from an early stage
yeah we had a massive Community right
like we did our first we used to call it
spark Summit it's now data and AI Summit
you look at the strategy of the company
was like make data bricks the best place
to manage spark and then it was make
data breaks the best place to manage
data and then it's make data breaks the
best place to manage data in Ai and so
we've stayed to that but our community
was thousands and thousands of members
like I would
go like just to tell you a story first
month I was here I was like hey we have
to be in financial services so I went
and set up like 10 CIO meetings on Wall
Street I took all the founders out there
and I would tell them like hey I'm
bringing the s of spark would love to
meet with you and it was crazy like I
get the meeting with the CIO like next
week like that never happens and then
we'd show up and a hundred people would
show up and they would want to sign
autographs with the founders because
these guys are iconic like
open-source computer people in terms of
that project again so like that kind of
free user open- Source user Community
was already growing so how do you then
tap into that and understand okay what's
the business model that allows you to
then add a ton of
value on that uh to your customers and
step one is go meet with all as many of
those customers or their users at the
time meet with those users and
understand what are the biggest things
of value and as we've evolved now the
founders have an amazing Vision about
what does the entire data and space need
for a fully
managed integrated solution right and
our Innovation scale is just second to
none at this point so here's what comes
to mind maybe as a takeaway for the
audience it's something like take
advantage of the unique advantages that
you have as a business and so you had
Founders that in your Target demographic
were famous because of the uh products
that they had developed and when cios
had the opportunity to meet the
developers of this product that they had
a lot of affinity towards it was an
opportunity that they wanted to jump on
and even you have technical Founders
that probably aren't uh uh go to market
oriented you leveraged them to generate
a bunch of Revenue and get meetings with
cios of some of the largest enterprise
software companies in the world that's
going to be unique to data bricks not
everybody has that specific environment
but everybody does have something that
is unique about their business you could
have been in YC like brex we really took
advantage of being in YC and constantly
hosted events and constantly put our
Founders in front of the other YC
Founders figure out what that that thing
is for your business and then really
play to your strength s the other thing
we did too early days was a16z Ben
horwood basically that's how I got
introduced to the company and
a16z they have a lot of those kind of go
to market motions will they'll set up
basically a forum for you to present to
large Enterprises I know not everybody
has maybe a VC backer but those programs
are incredibly valuable sometimes people
like Outsource them to a salesperson or
delegate them I to do all those myself
right if I can get the access
to Apple or cap one or somebody like
that their CIO and their whole staff and
I get 20 minutes to present I want to do
that because that's going to open doors
so take full advantage I think the VCS
have amazing connections for their
portfolio
companies and we found a lot of our big
Enterprise customers through that
channel early
days yeah I think really
smart and I was having lunch today with
the VC and this was one of the topics
and it was like he was surprised at how
little his portfolio companies leverage
him for
introductions and he used this example
of one that is doing a good job of it
and he introduced them to their four
largest customers yep and I think the
way that most Founders early sales folks
just startups broadly try and leverage
investors is something like you send
your monthly investor update and you say
something like do you know any cios at
Fortune 500 companies that you can
introduce me to if so please make the
intro whatever's the right target ICP
for the company uh that they're selling
into the way that you should do this is
you should just make it so easy for your
investor you send them a um appointed
email and it's hey I know if it's
another startup it's I see that you
invested in Rippling would you mind
introducing me to
Parker you can forward him this email
this is a quick blurb about what we do
would love to get introduced either to
him or maybe like his CFO let's say
you're selling a yeah make it easy make
it specific most people want to help
your VC wants to help you for sure and
most of the people that are the VC's
connected to they want to help too they
want want to meet entrepreneurs they
want to see Cool Tech so make it
specific make the ask easy I take lots
of 20 minute meetings to meet new
Founders and CEOs and cro because I I'm
an entrepreneur I love that stuff I
think it's super interesting so very
cool let's continue down the path you
said something like in the early days
you were um flying to New York meeting
with some of the biggest banks in the
world which leads me to
when you started building out the team I
think you're in Phoenix I think data
bricks is in San
Francisco were you building a field
sales organization did you have an
inside sales team what was the calculus
for how you determined where folks would
sit yeah we did both actually so like
our headquarters were in San Francisco
so I'd go up there every other week for
the whole week and the other weeks I'd
be on the road to New York and London
and wherever we built out an Enterprise
field team when I got here it was mostly
just startup folks so we had call it a
hub in San
Francisco mostly inside sellers we were
trying to sell to all the smartest
Silicon Valley Tech companies which is
actually pretty hard a lot of those
folks like to build their own stuff
right they're early adopters of tech but
they're also like harder to get big
dollars out of early in a
company so part of my assessment when I
came here is like Enterprises are the
companies they have big dollars but they
need the most help with data and AI so I
built out the Enterprise field team I
think probably in the first quarter I
probably hired 40 sales
folks because I saw the kind of demand
that I thought and we we had some big
Revenue aspirations but we built both I
would say I think you w to decide is
your product Big Ticket item where you
need all custom stuff or is it you know
something you want to start in Silicon
Valley uh we decided to do both because
we saw the opportunity in both I do
think your inside sales team should be
together I like the bullpen concept I
think they need to learn from each other
they need to feel the energy from each
other but yeah so we built out both to
start and both have been incredibly
successful for us makes sense
okay let's talk a little bit about
pricing another topic that comes up
pretty regularly in conversations with
Founders and as companies are scaling so
you all started with an open- Source
product that's
free and then there's a few different
models you can have contracted pricing
that's oftentimes like license based or
seat-based you can have consumption
based so how much of the it's like usage
you also have outcome based so something
that's oriented around a specific
outcome for the business talk us through
a little bit of the Evolution how that
worked at data bricks and then we'll
maybe like a continuation of that would
be something like knowing everything
that you know now would you have done
anything differently there yeah no good
question first off like we used to have
lots of fun long debates about pricing
with the whole founding team because
it's super important you get it right we
were consumption based I mean we're
we're Cloud only right we provide a
cloud
service the open source product you can
use it on you can use it wherever you
want our cloud service it's only in the
cloud we're consumption based and when
we looked at different business models
first of all like that's how most of the
cloud call it AWS Google Microsoft so it
made sense to our customers it has to
make sense to your customers they also
know have to know how to Value it so in
a lot of our sales cycle I taught hey
how do what's the value of this the
customer what's the business outcome
because they have to be able to
understand okay does my pricing model
kind of match how I get value and so for
us like the more data you have and the
more queries and the more analysis and
analytics you can do the more value
you're going to get out of it so having
a consumption based model makes a ton of
sense and also our Baseline continues to
grow so as people get more and more data
and more and more queries our Revenue
grows as well right which I think is a
way Superior model than a licensing or a
seat-based because eventually you might
run out of
users for us data and consumption
continues to grow but it depends on your
business model but that's what made
sense for us and we stayed true to that
today we would our list pricing on the
website still out there very transparent
again we're an engineering driven
company so pricing pretty transparent
and yeah I think one thing your second
part of your question was like what's
one thing looking back that maybe we
might have done differently we started
with really simple pricing right like
maybe two SKS and then we did an add-on
and now we have fairly complex pricing
because we have lots of products and so
thinking through what are are the
biggest value
points propensity to spend in terms of
how you make your packages because the
tradeoff is do you make your pricing
super
simple and make it easier for customers
to buy or do you make it super complex
and try to capture every dollar I think
we did actually a pretty good job
starting simple and now we're getting a
little bit more complex just with the
product complexity but that tradeoff I
think is something you really want to
look at cuz well you don't want to do is
have to keep redoing it every year every
couple years because it'll slow you down
I think being super thoughtful on your
pricing packaging especially your
packaging strategy is really
important that's
great one thing that stood out among a
lot of things that you mentioned that I
think are good
takeaways you said there there was a bit
of I think AWS and maybe other like
cloud data providers in the space had
already standardized on this consumption
model and so for you you were selling
into a buyer who is probably used to
paying for a product and service like
yours in a certain way and so trying to
innovate on pricing can add additional
friction or be disruptive to the selling
or buying process depending on which
seat you sit in like innovating and
pricing is probably not the right thing
to do is maybe like one takeaway from
something that you said yeah I would
innovate on the packaging right like how
do you package things again our base
parameter of consumption made sense for
our Market but how you package those SKS
to make them easy to buy like this type
of buyer likes to buy this make it easy
for them to buy at this price point this
type of buyer likes these features
package them together make it easy to
buy at this price point I think you
should think through your packaging
strategy and innovate there I think
that's smart especially early early
stage so makes sense let's talk about
customers you now have a massive base of
customers and I think there are a lot of
things that come to mind in terms of how
you can leverage customers to
improve the business there's things like
incorporating their product feedback
there's things like creating a community
within your customer base and really
developing some brand Tailwinds from
that Community there's things like
leveraging your really happy customers
for referrals to generate additional
revenue from new customers um of those
things what comes to mind in terms of
things that you've done a really
effective job at data bricks and
like how early would you think about
trying to uh incorporate some of the
things I just mentioned yeah know first
of all creating Community among your
customers is super important right
depending on what type of business you
have meetups or industry
roundtables like the your best selling
mechanism is having a really happy
customer sell to a
prospect that's your number one thing so
setting up environments where you can
can do that I think is super valuable we
had the advantage of having these really
large open source communities like spark
Summit where we'd bring thousands of
users and customers together but even
early on we did things like product
Advisory board we're very customer
obsessed right so you're going to get a
lot of innovation and other ideas from
your customers you never want to do do
like a oneoff but if you hear something
from 20 different customers put in the
right and those customers want to feel
special too they want to be part of the
rocket ship right so bring them in make
them part of your family make them part
of the product Advisory Board we do a
lot of Industry round taes which I think
are super valuable so especially for the
Enterprises like for Forma like they're
all doing similar things with data and
AI for our space so they want to learn
from each other learn the best practices
it also creates this fomo inside the
industry to get people to move faster
those were the things we would do around
using customers as part of that
Community um to build your brand and
that's been really
effective I think our Customer Events
are exceptional we we have a data a
world tour data n World Tour now where
we go to each City and bring thousands
of customers together and like I said
customers learning from customers is
like your best selling mechanism for
sure so
awesome you have lots of events you
probably include existing customers
maybe have some prospective customers
that attend those events also so that
they can meet one another like-minded
folks and hope the Keynotes and we do
panels and we do that's pretty normal
stuff but yeah exactly
awesome all right let's end on you've
now been in the revenue leadership role
for nine years if you can go back to day
one until Ron on day one starting at
data
bricks some advice given everything that
you've learned thus far and maybe more
in the abstract
for early Revenue leaders that are
joining a startup at a million dollars
of ARR hoping to follow in their
footsteps to be the next pre-ipo company
what what's that advice look like yeah
first
off my biggest piece of
advice for any Revenue leader or leader
in general is like I said before hire
the
best Inspire them motivate them Mentor
them pretty pretty basic stuff but in
general I think grit early stage in the
company like getting from that zero to
10 million is going to be different than
10 to 100 different than 100 of billion
you need to adapt at each stage if you
want to move on to the next stage that
means different leadership different
processes all those kind of things but
early
days it's a lot of grit and prospecting
and pipeline build and I always say
pipelines effort right so get the right
people on your team that are highly
motivated working together to make it
successful together worked on culture
early set those things right and if I
had to give myself advice would have
been invest even more early when you I
think we could have grew even
faster we were always looking at
productivity and all those things but
again you're trying to look 12 24 months
out based on ramp times when you see you
got product Market fit step on the gas
but yeah establish your culture I think
hard work beats
Talent tons of grit early days
and yeah good luck I love it feedback
that resonates with me and I'm sure a
bunch of folks listening in
also this was awesome thank you for
taking the time Ron appreciate it and
thanks all of yall for listening in take
care thanks Sam